Add a topic for updating the boilerplate (#499)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/get-started/update-boilerplate.mdx

   - **Cherry-pick** specific commits from the upstream repository if you want to apply only particular features or fixes. This gives you granular control over what changes to include and helps avoid introducing unwanted modifications.

   For each change you apply, commit it with a clear message describing what upstream improvement you're incorporating. This creates a clean history that makes it easy to understand what was updated and why, which will be valuable for future upgrades and troubleshooting.

5. **Resolve integration points and test**

   - Resolve any conflicts in integration code, preserving your customizations
   - Test thoroughly in your development environment
   - Run your test suite if available
   - Deploy to a staging environment for comprehensive testing

</Steps>

</Option>
</Options>

## Special considerations for early-adopter projects

<Aside type="caution">
If you scaffolded your project before mid-2025, you may have encountered a major architectural change: commerce logic moved from `scripts.js` to `scripts/commerce.js`. This shift affects your update scope but uses the same methods above.
</Aside>

### Understanding the architectural change

> The major refactoring (PR #567) reorganized the boilerplate architecture with two significant improvements:

Reviewer: The reference to the PR won't resolve. Either add a link or drop the reference to the PR.

> **1. Separation of AEM and commerce logic:**

Reviewer: This should not be numbered. Change your 1 and 2 to bulleted items and indent your current bulleted items to be level 2.

## Vocabulary

<Vocabulary columns={2}>

### Drop-in components
NPM packages containing the core commerce functionality such as cart, checkout, product details, and user authentication.

### Integration layer
Storefront-level files that integrate drop-ins with your site, including initialization scripts and block implementations.

### Upstream
The original Commerce Boilerplate repository from which your project was created.

### Selective updates
The process of manually choosing and merging specific changes from the upstream boilerplate into your project.

### Breaking changes
Updates that require modifications to your existing code, typically found in major version releases.

### Post-install scripts
Automated scripts that run after NPM package installation to copy updated commerce logic to your local project.

</Vocabulary>

## Understanding the upgrade landscape

### What gets updated

Most of your storefront's critical commerce logic is now delivered through NPM packages, making upgrades significantly easier and more reliable. Upgrades typically involve these main areas:

**Drop-in Components:** NPM packages containing the core commerce functionality

> - `@dropins/storefront-account`

Reviewer: Is it absolutely necessary to maintain a list of dropins? We'll be getting more for B2B soon enough.

- `@dropins/storefront-auth`
- `@dropins/storefront-cart`
- `@dropins/storefront-checkout`
- `@dropins/storefront-order`
- `@dropins/storefront-pdp`
- `@dropins/storefront-product-discovery`
- `@dropins/storefront-recommendations`
- `@dropins/storefront-wishlist`
- `@dropins/storefront-personalization`
- `@dropins/storefront-payment-services`
- `@dropins/tools`

**Boilerplate Integration Layer:** storefront-level files that integrate drop-ins

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0, 2]}>

| File | Purpose | Update Frequency | Typical Changes |
|------|---------|------------------|-----------------|

> | `scripts/aem.js` | Core AEM functionality | Very Rare | Core platform improvements |

Reviewer: Alphabetize?

</Aside>

#### Step 1: Update drop-in components

Most of your commerce functionality improvements come through these package updates:

Check your current versions:

```bash
npm list @dropins/storefront-*
```

Update individual components:

```bash
npm install @dropins/storefront-cart@latest
npm install @dropins/storefront-checkout@latest
# Repeat for other components as needed
```

Or update all drop-in components at once:

```bash
npm update @dropins/storefront-*
```

<Aside type="note">
The boilerplate's postinstall and postupdate scripts automatically copy updated commerce logic from `node_modules` to `scripts/__dropins__` for Edge Delivery Services.
</Aside>

#### Step 2: Test your storefront

Since most logic changes are packaged, testing focuses on integration points:

Start your local development environment:

```bash
npm start
```

Test all commerce functionality:

- Product detail pages
- Shopping cart operations
- Checkout flow
- User account features
- Search and navigation

Review the release notes for any integration changes that may affect your implementation.

<Aside type="caution" title="For Major Version Updates">

> When upgrading drop-in packages across major versions (e.g., from 1.x to 2.x), perform more thorough testing as these updates may include breaking changes. Pay particular attention to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading drop-in packages across major versions (for example, from 1.x to 2.x), perform more thorough testing as these updates may include breaking changes. Pay particular attention to:
```

### Migration benefits for PDP blocks

- **Complete layout control**: Arrange containers in any order within your block structure
- **Individual container replacement**: Replace entire sections (like gallery or pricing) with custom implementations
- **Simplified styling**: Style containers independently without complex CSS overrides
- **Enhanced functionality**: Each container can be configured independently with specific features
- **Eliminated slot workarounds**: UI customizations that required appending, prepending, or replacing slot content can now be handled directly in the layout structure or by completely replacing containers
- **Direct data access**: Product data previously available through slot context is now accessible via the event bus (`pdp/data` and `pdp/values`)
- **Future-proof architecture**: New PDP features delivered as new containers rather than slot modifications

> ### PDP block migration process

Reviewer: I feel like this is a separate topic that can be deleted 6 months or a year from now

- Monitor key metrics post-deployment
- Have rollback procedures ready

### Long-term maintenance

**Stay current**

- Update regularly, don't let them pile up
- Apply security patches promptly
- Plan major upgrades ahead well in advance

**Customize thoughtfully**

- Minimize modifications to core boilerplate files
- Use configuration and theming approaches when possible
- Document the business justification for customizations

## Resources

- [Storefront Developer Tutorial](/get-started/create-storefront/): Comprehensive storefront setup guide
- [Architecture Guide](/setup/discovery/architecture/): Understanding the technical foundation
- [Drop-in Components Documentation](/dropins/all/introduction/): Detailed component guides
- <Link href="https://www.aem.live/docs/" text="AEM Edge Delivery Services" />: Core platform documentation
- <Link href="https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce" text="Commerce Boilerplate Repository" />: Source code and latest updates
- [Release Notes](/releases/): Track major changes and updates
- <Link href="https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/releases" text="Boilerplate Releases" />: GitHub releases and version history

> <Aside type="note">

Reviewer: This Aside is misplaced. It should be way higher.
